NOTES. 133

12. ltaque . . . vocitetus eet: this was chiefly because it and

Andocides played leading parts in a suit-at-lew in reference to
this mutilation. He did not erect it himself, but one of the ten
Attio tn'bes had done so. The Atheniens banished Andocides,
believing he was connected with the outrage.

13. hic: subject accus. of esee fectum.

13. eppireret: the remainder of the clause is subject of this
verb.

14. quae . . . pertineret: having ts do with a matter not of
private but qs public concern ; the subjunctive shows it to bc
given as the thought ol the people. Pericles established a com-
plete democracy‚ and there were clubs formed at once which con·
stantly labored for its overthrow.

16. multifidinl: populace.

ιὰ qua: some ‚· the indefinite norn. sing. fem.

re repentine: an adj. with viu trans. as an adv. with ex-
sisteret.

17. quae. . . opprimeret: the readiness of the Atheniens to
think so, was due to their habitual state of mind; cf. the tense
of extimescebat, p. 8, l. ¹13 cs. also Them.8,1; Cimon 3,1.

18. hoc: ic.. the forming of a conspiracy to overthrow the
democracy.

18. convenire in: to bc likely os, lit. to come together to.

ro miior: cs. the meaning of megum, p. 20, l. 1. The com-
parative may be translated too powerful, etc„ sor.

19 privitus: cf nin videbatur posse esee'privatus, p. 8, l. 13.

zo. devinxerat: (devinciri) supply eibi; had laid under obli-
gations to him.

21. pluresetiem: still more, thus often etiem with a com-
parative.

21. operi forensi: assistance in court ; the word forensi and
the fact of pleading in court for another Nepos borrows from
Roman affairs. At Rome the law-courts were held in the Forum
and advocates were allowed; at Athens the law required each
man personally to conduct his own defense.

23. prodisset: for prodis-issem pro (old form prod) . . . ei, as
below pri (prid) . . ‚esse :prodesse

 

